---
layout: post
title:  "Pixar's Soul: A Ramble-Review"
date:   2020-12-30 -0500
categories: fanstuff disney movie review
excerpt: "This movie didn't resonate with me as much as other Pixar movies did, which makes sense because this is about an adult man so probably he wouldn't have as much in common with me as, say, a sibling story or a tale about a young kid following his love for music and reconciling with his family. I loved it as a movie but I didn't really feel it as much as I would have hoped."
---

Some general thoughts on Pixar's "Soul":  

- THE OPENING SCENE. GOD I LOVED IT FROM THE BEGINNING. The way, before the scene even started, we heard he cacophonous sound of the middle school band PLAYING THE DISNEY OPENING MUSIC. The way you could hear the Disney opening music amidst the chaos was hilarious and brilliant and such a perfect opening. And when the scene started and you could see the class, god that took me back to middle school orchestra. The fact that most of the students were POC made me very happy.  

- I love music and I love movies about music and I love movies about characters who get emotional about music (cough, Coco) so NATURALLY this was exactly my thing. And the actual music and the soundtrack of this movie was stunning. I am re-listening to the soundtrack right now. God, all the different musical styles and the ethereal piano and the jazz band ahhhhh I am HERE for it.  

- The whole Getting In The Zone motif was a great Chekhov's gun and recurring theme  

- You know what else I'm here for? the character and set design all the way, oh my god. NYC felt like home in a way it never felt like home in any other movie. I'm grateful to be seeing a POC perspective on NYC rather than just watching the glamorous, glittering, White New York / The Greatest City In The World. The world of Soul was so full and immersive, both in real life and in the soul world; the character design and costumes were WONDERFUL. I loved Dorothea Williams and the band.  

- The visuals of the Soul World were really good, but it's the music associated with the place that gave it its true beauty, which is so fitting for a movie about music. But I really, really freaking loved those parts where they blended 2D and 3D animation, like in the black and white scenes and also with Terry and Jerry. I love 3D but it always makes me so happy when animated films go back to 2D animation or fuse 2D and 3D like Into The Spiderverse.  

- Most Pixar movies have this Moment That Drives It Home For Me and in Soul, that was the argument with Joe's mom scene. The way they argue and it transitions from Joe in the cat form whispering to 22 what he should say, and Joe saying it in 22's voice, and then it shifts to Joe saying it in his voice from his mother's perspective, was so well done. The stuff she was talking about—Joe's mother struggling to give Joe his education, and wanting Joe to pursue something practical whereas Joe wants to pursue his dreams, is something I can deeply relate to.  

- My main criticism of the movie was that the plot just felt very predictable and the ending didn't really feel resolved? I guessed that the souls would offer Joe another chance as a reward for giving 22 her spark, and that's exactly what happened. They give him the chance, Joe walks through the door.......and then the credits roll, leaving you thinking, so what? My favorite movies generally reference the beginning of the movie in the closing scene, just like how Onward made Ian go back to school with his newfound confidence and Coco flashed forward to the Rivera family celebrating Día de los Muertos one year later, but Soul didn't do anything like that. I expected a scene where Joe returned to the classroom and realized that his true passion was helping others, spreading his love for music to others, moving others with his love for music—but that never happened. I was really disappointed that the middle school band classroom wasn't referenced again after the beginning, except for a few moments where Connie came for the lesson and when Joe's mother talked about taking up the teaching job.  

- And another criticism of the movie which other people are better suited to talk about than me: Check out the thread below for more specific insights from a Black & Indigenous viewer! (Click the Tweet to access the FULL THREAD)   

- <blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="dark"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I finished Soul. And yeah I was emotional because of so many things but ultimately that movie centred a middle age white woman. It failed to really centre Joe or authentic Black experiences. The fact that Joe’s not even in his body most of the time is disturbing.</p>&mdash; Vika Mana (@endlessyarning) <a href="https://twitter.com/endlessyarning/status/1343927548237946881?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 29, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>  

- This movie didn't resonate with me as much as other Pixar movies did, which makes sense because this is about an adult man so probably he wouldn't have as much in common with me as, say, a sibling story or a tale about a young kid following his love for music and reconciling with his family. I loved it as a movie but I didn't really feel it as much as I would have hoped—even that one scene with Joe and his mom didn't hot me as hard as, say, the Remember Me scene from Coco or the Andy Growing Up montage from Toy Story 4. Technique-wise, it's a stunning movie and very artistically developed and planned and created. But emotionally, it didn't resonate with me as much as I hoped it would.    
