---
layout: post
title:  "in defense of percy weasley"
date:   2021-2-16 -0500
categories: fanstuff books hp
excerpt: "it's hard to empathize with percy weasley, especially if you're young and empathizing more with harry and his friends. but growing up—as an older sibling, oh boy oh boy. percy's story is pretty rough."
---

haha, maybe my younger siblings have something to do with it!   

but percy has kind of spent all his life trying to excel and live up to his oldest brother's accomplishments and impress his parents with two younger siblings who relentlessly mocked him and two more that thought of him as overly bossy or intrusive and didn't take him seriously. sure, i think all of the siblings loved each other but regardless that doesn't always reflect in their actions.  

if percy were to ever tell his parents that his younger siblings were getting to them, his parents would probably tell him something like "oh they're just teasing you" or "that's just the way they are," especially in the case of fred and george whose entire personalities essentially revolve around humor. and this is from personal experience, as someone whose youngest sister has pretty much fred-and-georged me my entire life! and she's only one person—i love her a ton but i don't know how i could put up with two of her.  

percy got a ministry job and spent GOF doing everything he could to impress his superiors and his father, even though he made a lot of mistakes along the way. in OOTP (or whenever percy's falling-out with his family was, i can't remember if that was HPB or OOTP), percy got a promotion and came home to tell his parents, hoping that they'd be impressed and proud but it turns out they became furious with him because they thought he would become a spy from the ministry on their family! i don't believe any of percy's younger siblings had any input in the conversation—from what i remember, they were mostly eavesdropping and/or getting this information from their parents, who would have told the story in such a way that portrayed their side in a more justified way—so when percy walked out on them, his siblings started hating him, especially fred and george. i'd imagine that percy was crushed.  

and then, as the death eaters take over the ministry, percy begins to realize that oh crap, his family was right but he can't walk out or else the ministry will put he and his family in even more danger. when he finally, finally is able to flee—on the night of the battle of hogwarts—and reconcile with his family again, the first people to forgive him are the siblings that apparently hated him the most after the falling-out: fred and george. and the weasley family is united again...........for a few hours at most, until percy has to watch fred die.  

i have a headcanon that percy, fred, and george were a lot closer when they were young as the middle children of the family, and they might have grown more distant after percy became a prefect and started caring about success and status and becoming a lot more bossy towards his siblings. what fred says in DH—"i haven't heard you joke since you were—" hints that percy might have once been a more easy joker or a more relaxed older brother. i feel like percy having been close with the twins would have explained why they were especially upset at percy when he left—hurt that he had abandoned their family—why they were the first to forgive him when he came back, and why percy (out of harry, ron, and hermione who were also present when it happened) reacted the most strongly to fred's death.  

harry potter has always portrayed things strictly from harry's perspective, with all his biases and prejudices—so percy is illustrated in a negative light for the same reason that all of the other hogwarts houses are portrayed as inferior to gryffindor in the prose. it's hard to empathize with percy weasley, especially if you're young and empathizing more with harry and his friends. but growing up—as an older sibling, oh boy oh boy. percy's story is pretty rough.  