---
title: AITA?
layout: post
date: 2022-8-6
categories: fiction
excerpt: Every month I (17F) call my friend. Shitty short fiction I wrote while angry in high school. If you think this is about you then I'm sorry because it might be. 562 words.
---

Every month I (17F) call my friend. It's mostly out of shame, I suppose---after an entire string of spam messages asking when I'd be available to call, the first being a full sentence and the next seventeen being "????????", I guiltily give in. He (18M) calls me on his gaming computer, of course, which I know because 1. every call he streams and 2. even if he didn't stream, he'd always rub it in that he had one; a gaming PC with a terabyte of storage, a VR headset, flashy LED lights to decorate his desk like an intergalactic arcade. He keeps telling me that I ought to replace my not-even-that-shitty-laptop and get one built for gaming so I can play with him. "Just lie to your parents," he says. "Tell them you need a new one for school."

"I'll probably get a new one for college, anyway," I say. "It can wait."

My sisters (14F, 12F) always ask who it is that I'm calling. I don't blame them; should I hear boys' voices in their bedrooms, I would do the same. Every time they ask, I tell them that he is my friend, that I knew him from sophomore chemistry, from the time he gaslit me instead of gassing up the Bunsen burners. I don't mention that last bit to them. I doubt they'd know what it means to gaslight, anyways.

I tell him excitedly when I finally get a new PC. It's not a gaming comp, exactly, but it's better than my old one, at least, with a 3-gig GPU. He's more excited than I am to waste my time. "Hey---I'll give you my entire gaming library. See if I can figure out how to do this family share setting thing."

"Family share?"

"Yeah, family. Because you are family."

"Hmmm?" I say absently. "Mmm-hmm. Yeah."

Part of this annoys me. Who does he think I am? He, an only child, pretending to know me like my sisters do. But I'm being stupid. Unreasonable, I know. It's not his fault that his parents never gave him siblings, and besides, it's 2 AM and I ought to have gone to bed instead of clinging to a light in a bedroom on the other side of the city. I roll my chair over to the window to clear my head with the stars. If I try hard enough, I can catch myself sinking into the alternate reality in which he really is my best friend come to watch the night with me. Spectators of Orion's hunt. That's the stock photo model of friendship, isn't it? Two adolescents (or at least, adults pretending to be), lying with their backs against suburban grass, heads touching, eyes embracing the constellated sky.

I suppose gaming is close enough. I (17F) pretend to watch him as he streams that space game he always plays---interplanetary imperialism, essentially---feigning my *oohs* and *ahhs* for his ego. The game is beautiful, truly. The destruction, a lovely supernova of light. In an alternate universe, I'd wrap myself in its graphical escapism, its space-movie-concept-art come to life. I'd enjoy it: the explosions, the battleships; watching him (18M) conquer things. I'd be so good at being a non-playable character, the conqueror's queen.

Am I the asshole?

In this alternate universe, I'd love him like a brother and he'd know what it means to be one.